methods.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Methods Meetings
---
<p align="center">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/meeting-2.jpg" width="100%" style="margin: 0px 20px"/>
  </p>


The London Genetics Network (LGN) Methods Meetings are a monthly meeting in which newly developed and commonly used methodology in statistical genetics will be presented and discussed. The Methods Meetings will be a friendly and supportive opportunity for researchers to better understand and use statistical genetic methods and software, aimed to support complete beginners as well as experts. The meetings will also help connect researchers using similar methodology within and across institutions, helping to establish a useful research community.

The Methods Meetings will alternate between presentations from invited speakers with specific methodological expertise, as well as journal club-style meetings led by Methods Meetings registrants. The journal club-style meetings will be led by groups of individuals to help breakdown sometimes daunting topics and provide networking opportunities for the presenters. All presentations will be recorded and made publicly available via the Open Science Framework providing a useful resource going forward. 

The Methods Meetings will be held online at 3pm on the first Tuesday of every month, starting from the 4th of May. In-person meetups will also be arranged when possible.

<br>
<br>

## Organisers


### Dr Oliver Pain
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Ollie-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px"/>
  </p>

###### Postdoctoral research associate <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London

### Dr Kirstin Purves
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Kirstin-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px" />
  </p>

###### Postdoctoral research associate <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London

### Dr Jonathan Coleman
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Joni-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px" />
  </p>

###### Lecturer in statistical genetics <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London

Commit message:

update mentoring and july methods meeting

methods.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Methods Meetings
---
<p align="center">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/meeting-2.jpg" width="100%" style="margin: 0px 20px"/>
  </p>


The London Genetics Network (LGN) Methods Meetings are a monthly meeting in which newly developed and commonly used methodology in statistical genetics will be presented and discussed. The Methods Meetings will be a friendly and supportive opportunity for researchers to better understand and use statistical genetic methods and software, aimed to support complete beginners as well as experts. The meetings will also help connect researchers using similar methodology within and across institutions, helping to establish a useful research community.

The Methods Meetings will alternate between presentations from invited speakers with specific methodological expertise, as well as journal club-style meetings led by Methods Meetings registrants. The journal club-style meetings will be led by groups of individuals to help breakdown sometimes daunting topics and provide networking opportunities for the presenters. All presentations will be recorded and made publicly available via the Open Science Framework providing a useful resource going forward. 

The Methods Meetings will be held online at 3pm on the first Tuesday of every month, starting from the 4th of May 2021. In-person meetups will also be arranged when possible.

<br>

## OSF links
Contents and details of past meetings can be found on our OSF pages:

Meetings led by group members: [https://osf.io/rzhku/](https://osf.io/rzhku/)

Meetings with invited speakers: [https://osf.io/4cqwf/](https://osf.io/4cqwf/)

<br>

## July 2021 Meeting
### Tuesday 6th July at 15.00. 

This meeting will be led by LGN members Dr Emma Meaburn and Dr Manuela Tan, who will be hosting a Q&A session on Whole Genome and Whole Exome sequencing with Dr Hilary Martin and Dr Aleksejs Sazonovs from the Sanger Institute.
 
The broad theme for the session is lessons learned using whole genome/whole exome approaches and will cover a range of theoretical and practical topics including conception and interpretation of WES/WGS studies for rare and common disorders, why you might choose WES over WGS, and common pitfalls and mistakes in analyses.
 
Please join us for a helpful and informative session for anyone who has ever thought about using whole genome approaches, or is just getting started with them.
 
Sign up to the event here:
[https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/161523060823](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/161523060823)
<br>
<br>

## Organisers


### Dr Oliver Pain
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Ollie-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px"/>
  </p>

###### Postdoctoral research associate <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London

### Dr Kirstin Purves
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Kirstin-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px" />
  </p>

###### Postdoctoral research associate <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London

### Dr Jonathan Coleman
<p align="left">
  <img src="{{ "/" | relative_url }}assets/Joni-2.jpg" width="180" style="margin: 0px 20px" />
  </p>

###### Lecturer in statistical genetics <br>
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London
